d2febaa5678d0975f1f11f24e4bfd7cd06d127f3ba9b5a3fd54bbbb269cb4d3c
		CHAPTER 31 - DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY ACT
Article 1. Data Privacy Rights, Generally (§§ 40-31-101 — 40-31-1??) 
40-31-101. Short title.
        This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Wyoming
        Data Privacy and Security Act".

 
40-31-102. Rights through acts of data privacy, generally.

        (a) Data privacy rights.

                (i)    Right to be Informed 
                (ii)   Right of access
                (iii)  Right to correction
                (iv)   Right to deletion
                (v)    Right to restrict processing opt-out (aka restrict processing generally; adverising and marketing) 
                (vi)   Right to data portability
		(v)    reserved.
		(vi)   reserved.
		(vii)  Right to data value opt-in

	(b)  Applicability of rights of section (a) shall be consistant with this act and  Article 4. Applicability

	(c)  Applicability of responibilities, obligations and duties to right holders of section (a) shall be consistant with this act and  Article 4. Applicability

	(d)  Data Privacy Rights unders subsection (a) shall be limited rights subject to subsections (b) and (c). 
 
Article 2. Acts through Data Privacy, Generally (§§ 40-31-201 — 40-31-2??)
40-31-201. Consistency. Acts through data privacy shall be

                (i) consistent with this Act and the provisions of W.S. 40‑30‑101. Digital Identity.

                (i) consistent with this Act and the provisions of W.S. 40‑30‑201. Digital Identity, Article 2 Cryptographic Signatures TBD

                (i) consistent with the provisions of W.S. 8-1-102(a)(xviii) "Personal digital identity"

                (i) consistent with the provisions of W.S. 8-1-102(a)(xix) "Organizational digital identity"

                (i) consistent with the provisions of W.S. 40-21-102 (xiv). Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. Definitions. "Security procedure".

                (i) consistent with the provisions of W.S. 40-21-102 (a) (xiii). Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. Definitions. "Record".

                (i) consistent with the provisions of W.S. 40-21-102 (xiii). Attribution and effect of electronic record and electronic signature.

                (i) consistent with the provisions of 40-21-107. Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. Legal recognition of electronic records, electronic signatures and electronic contracts.

                (i) consistent with the provisions of 40-21-109. Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. Attribution and effect of electronic record and electronic signature.

                (i) consistent with the provisions of 17-4-105. Electronic records and signatures; applicability.
 
 
Article 4. Applicability (§§ 40-31-401 — 40-31-4??)

40-31-401. Data Privacy and Security Act Roles

        (a) Holders of Rights.

                (i)  For the purpose of this Act, holders of data privacy rights shall be Data Rights Holders DRH.
                (ii) For the purpose of this Act, holders of data privacy rights, on behalf of a "Data Rights Holder DRH, shall be Data Rights Agents.


        (b) Responsible parties.

                (i)  For the purpose of this Act, responsible parties having obligations and duties to Data Rights Holders DRH shall be Data Responsible Obligation Parties DROP.
                (ii) For the purpose of this Act, responsible parties having obligations and duties to Data Rights Holders DRH on behalf of Data Responsible Obligation Parties DROP
                        shall be Data Responsible Obligation Parties DROP Agents.



40-31-402. Legal Basis.

        (a) Applicability of data privacy rights and obligations shall be limited by

		(i) data
			                        
			(A) catagories
                        (B) use
                        (C) qualifiers

		(ii)  attribution of identity by 

			(A) actor legal identity
			(B) role
			(C) principle authority

		(ii) attribution of identity and methods of attribution through 

                        (A) catagories
                        (B) use/purpous
                        (C) qualifiers
	

40-31-403. Limited rights of private action. 

	(a) Acts through data privacy may included limited rights of private action of Data Rights Holders DRH.
		Limited rights of private action shall be determined by 

                (i)  Section 40-31-401. and 40-31-402. 
 
Article 5. Data Privacy Rights  (§§ 40-31-501 — 40-31-5??)
40-31-501. Applicability of rights of section 40-31-503 

	(a) shall be consistant with this act and
  
	(b) limited by Article 4. Applicability



40-31-502. Data privacy holders DPH

        (a) may exercise the following rights under section 40-31-503 by
                submitting a request using the methods specified by a
                data responsibility obligations party DROP in the privacy notice required under
                W.S. 40-30-207(a). The method specified by the data responsibility obligations party DROP
                shall take into account the ways in which data rights holder DRHs normally
                interact with the data responsibility obligations party DROP, the need for secure and reliable
                communication relating to the request and the ability of
                the data responsibility obligations party DROP to authenticate the identity of the data rights holder DRH
                making the request. Data responsibility obligations party DROPs shall not require a
                data rights holder DRH to create a new account to exercise data rights holder DRH                           <<------ PROBLEMATICE FOR WEB3 NEW KEYS-------->>
                rights pursuant to this section but may require a data rights holder DRH
                to use an existing account. A data rights holder DRH may submit a request
                at any time to a data responsibility obligations party DROP specifying which of the
                following rights the data rights holder DRH wishes to exercise:

40-31-503. Data privacy rights.

	Data privacy right holders DRH shall have the following rights limited by section 40-31-501.

                (i)    Right to be Informed

                (ii)   Right of access

			A data rights holder DRH has the right to
                        confirm whether a data responsibility obligations party DROP is processing personal data
                        concerning the data rights holder DRH and to access the data rights holder DRH's
                        personal data;


                (iii)  Right to correction.

			A data rights holder DRH has the
                        right to correct inaccuracies in the data rights holder DRH's personal
                        data, taking into account the nature of the personal data
                        and the purposes of the processing of the data rights holder DRH's
                        personal data;

                (iv)   Right to deletion.

			A data rights holder DRH has the right
                        to delete personal data concerning the data rights holder DRH;

                (v)    Right to restrict processing opt-out (aka restrict processing generally; adverising and marketing)
                
			(A) A data rights holder DRH has the right to opt out of
                                the processing of personal data concerning the data rights holder DRH for
                                purposes of  advertising and marketing

			(B)  Applicability of subsection (v)(A) shall be consistant with the provisions of Article 14.


		(vi)   Right to data portability.
	
			When exercising
                        the right to access personal data pursuant to paragraph
			(ii) of this subsection, a data rights holder DRH has the right to obtain
                        the personal data in a portable and, to the extent
                        technically feasible, readily usable format that allows the
                        data rights holder DRH to transmit the data to another entity without
                        hindrance. A data rights holder DRH may exercise this right not more than
                        two (2) times per calendar year. Nothing in this paragraph
                        requires a data responsibility obligations party DROP to provide the data to the data rights holder DRH
                        in a manner that would disclose the data responsibility obligations party DROP's trade
                        secrets.

			
                (v)    reserved.
                (vi)   reserved.
                (vii)  Right to opt-in
                (viii) Right to data value opt-in
                (ix)   right to control user generated data which is decentralized? [NFT etc ]
                (x)    reserved.




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 14. Advertising and Marketing  (§§ 40-31-601 — 40-31-6??)

40-31-101. Applicability of the right Right to restrict processing opt-out shall be determined by 

	(a) data catagory section 40-31-102.
	(b) data uses section 40-31-103.
	(c) attribution of identity section 40-31-104.


40-31-102. Data. Applicability of the Right to restrict processing opt-out for applies to
        the following data catagories 

		(a) personal data that is identifiable to the Data Rights Holder DRH. 


40-31-103. Data. Applicability of the right Right to restrict processing opt-out for applies to  
	the following 
		
		(a) data used for or sale for the purpous of 
	
			(i)   advertising 
			(ii)  targeted advertising
			(iii) marketing 
			(iii) promotion

		(b) data qualifiers 

			(i) non-personalize data used for or to

				(A) processing of data by a first party for advertising, marketing and promotion of the first parties products and services based on the user prior use of the system.
                                (B) processing of data by a first party for advertising, marketing and promotion of the first parties products and services based on the user prior use of specific services.
                                (C) The promotion  of products or services targeting users based on processing of specific categories of data acquired from third party sources.
                                (D) The targeting and changing of promotional content based on processing of specific categories of user data acquired from third party sources.

			(ii) personalize data used for or to

				(A) The targeting and changing of promotional content based on processing of specific data categories set by the user.


40-31-104. Attribution of identity. 

	(a) A data rights holder DRH who is a Natural Person.
		
	(b) Obligations, responsibilities and duties. A data responsibility obligations party DROP	
		that is an 

			(i) organazation or organizational digital identity that has 1 Million users.

40-31-105. Rights of data rights holder DRH.

	(a) Data use.
			(i) A data rights holder DRH has the right to opt out of
                                the processing of personal data concerning the data rights holder DRH for
                                purposes data used for or sold for use of:

                                (A) Targeted advertising;
                                (B) The sale of personal data; or
                                (C) Profiling in furtherance of
                                        decisions that produce legal or similarly significant
                                        effects concerning a data rights holder DRH.

	(b) data qualifiers. 
			
			(A) a  data rights holder DRH has the right to opt out of
                                the processing of data use unders subsection 40-31-103 (a) by the specific data qualifiers of  
				40-31-103 (b).  



40-31-105. Responsibility obligations party DROP.

	(a) Responsibility and obligations.


                        (B) A data responsibility obligations party DROP that processes personal
                                data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of
                                personal data shall provide a clear and conspicuous method
                                to exercise the right to opt out of the processing of
                                personal data concerning the data rights holder DRH pursuant to
                                subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. The data responsibility obligations party DROP shall
                                provide the opt out method clearly and conspicuously in any
                                privacy notice required to be provided to data rights holder DRHs under
                                this article, and in a clear, conspicuous and readily
                                accessible location outside the privacy notice;

                        (C) Effective July 1, 2024, a data responsibility obligations party DROP
                                that processes personal data for purposes of targeted
                                advertising or the sale of personal data shall allow
                                data rights holder DRHs to exercise the right to opt out of the
                                processing of personal data concerning the data rights holder DRH for
                                purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of personal
                                data pursuant to subdivisions 40-31-105.(a)(i)(A)  and 40-31-105.(a)(i)(B) of this
                                paragraph through a user-selected universal opt out
                                mechanism or personal digital identity;

                        (D) Notwithstanding a data rights holder DRH's decision to
                                exercise the right to opt out of the processing of personal
                                data through a universal opt out mechanism or personal
                                digital identity pursuant to subparagraph (C) of this
                                paragraph, a data responsibility obligations party DROP may enable the data rights holder DRH to consent,
                                through a web page, application or a similar method, to the
                                processing of the data rights holder DRH's personal data for purposes of
                                targeted advertising or the sale of personal data, and that
                                consent takes precedence over any choice reflected through
                                the universal opt out mechanism. Before obtaining a
                                data rights holder DRH's consent to process personal data for purposes of
                                targeted advertising or the sale of personal data pursuant
                                to this subparagraph, a data responsibility obligations party DROP shall provide the
                                data rights holder DRH with a clear and conspicuous notice informing the
                                data rights holder DRH about the choices available under this section,
                                describing the categories of personal data to be processed
                                and the purposes for which they will be processed and
                                explaining how and where the data rights holder DRH may withdraw consent.
                                The web page, application or other means by which a
                                data responsibility obligations party DROP obtains a data rights holder DRH's consent to process personal
                                data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of
                                personal data shall also allow the data rights holder DRH to revoke the
                                consent as easily as it is affirmatively provided. Consent
                                provided under this subparagraph shall expire not more than
                                three (3) years following the date the consent is provided,
                                and unless reaffirmed by the data rights holder DRH the data rights holder DRH shall be
                                considered to have opted out.

                        (E) Any data rights holder DRH whose personal data is
                                transferred to a third party as described in
                                W.S. 40-30-202(a)(xxiii)(D) shall be deemed to have opted
                                out unless consent is reobtained.
